All right.
So now that we know about this slice method on an array, we can use it on our jobs array in the job
listings component.
What I propose we do is just display the first ten jobs for now.
And then later on, we'll figure out how to display a certain batch of ten based on the page that we're
on.
For now, let's just limit our original results set of 100 jobs to ten to think about how we might build
this architecture out.
So where is a good place to slice the original jobs array?
Well, I would argue a bad place to do it is right here in the mounted lifecycle hook because if we
slice the array that we receive right here, we're going to lose all of the original data.
We might get an array of 100, but then it will limit it to an array of ten and save the jobs.
And it will have no way of getting back the original 90 unless we make another API request.
And that's generally not a good idea.
We want to reduce the amount of requests we send and if we're going to get a batch of 100 up front,
I think we should find some way to keep it or to cash it, in other words, and then simply go into
that array and take out a fresh batch of ten jobs from that existing data as the user navigates to a
different page.
So right here, I don't think it's a good place for us to use the sliced method.
So what we fundamentally have is a job's slice of data, and we have something else that is a smaller
subset of it, or in other words, a derived smaller section of the original data.
So what I'm looking for here is a computed property, right?
Because a computed property is designed precisely for this kind of purpose.
We don't want to duplicate the original data.
And even if we take a subset of ten elements out of an original array, we're still fundamentally duplicating
the original data.
Right?
It's just a smaller view of an original object.
We don't want to do that because then we have to separate identical batches of ten job objects floating
around somewhere in an application.
We only want one source of truth, which is going to be our jobs array of 100 jobs.
But our computed property can be a dynamic derived calculation that is always looking at the jobs array
and using that as the basis from which to extract a smaller array of ten elements.
And then in our V for loop right here, if we iterate over that computed property of jobs instead of
the original batch of 100, we'll be able to iterate over whatever ten jobs that computed property returns.
So let me show you how that's going to work right here below our data method.
I'll define my computed object.
So computed is going to be an object and I'll define a method on here.
Called displayed jobs.
Because the difference between this these jobs, rather, and these jobs is this is all my original
jobs.
These are the jobs that I want to display.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to return and I'm going to reference my jobs that are property
which I can do via this keyword.
So this that jobs gives me that array of 100 jobs once the back end returns its data and I save it.
And what I want to do is invoke the slice method to get just the first ten.
So what I can do here is start at index zero and pull up to but not including index position ten.
All right.
Remember that index ten will not be included.
So this will actually be an array of just the first ten jobs index positions.
0123456789.
That is a total of ten jobs.
All right.
So then up here, instead of iterating over my regular job's array of 100, I now want to iterate over
my display jobs computed array, which is still an array so we can still iterate over it using v four.
And we don't have to change anything else because the jobs id can be the key.
The job object is still the prop that we want to pass into the job listing opponent.
Nothing has changed except what we are iterating over.
And now it's a smaller subset of ten jobs instead of the original 100.
So I do want to head to the browser to look at this.
But before I do that, I actually want to run a test sweep because we're going to discover that a certain
test is failing.
So right here, I'm going to open up my terminal and I'm going to run NPM, run, test watch.
That's going to take a look at anything that has changed and any tests that are related to it.
So this should run the relevant test files.
In our case, it's going to be the job listings, that test component.
And your note, you'll notice we're going to have a failure.
So I'm going to open up that file.
Job listings, plural.
Test that.
Yes.
And it's actually going to come if we scroll up, it's going to come from this one.
Creates a job listing for each received jobs.
You'll notice here in our test we expect job listings to have a length of 15, which is the original
array of data that we specify right here.
We created an array of 15 elements and thus we expect to display 15.
But now our apps logic does not work in that way.
If we receive an array of 15 elements, we only want to display the first ten, right?
So instead of keeping the original description, I think I'm going to change this one instead of it
creates a job listing for each received job.
I can say something like creates a job listing.
For a maximum of ten jobs.
Because that is our actual business logic.
So I'm comfortable putting it here in the description.
So if I get an array of 15 objects, I only expect to get ten elements on my component with this data
test attribute or in other words, ten job listing components.
So if I save this, hopefully the tests pass and indeed they do.
And indeed we have.
We do.
We now do have a test that is capturing that core bit of business logic that has now changed.
So with that, I feel good and I can navigate back to my browser and we could take a look at this page.
Let me just refresh it to be safe.
All right.
And we scroll down.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
And perfectly we have reached the end of the page and we only show the first ten jobs.
Now, if I had to view dev tools, just so you don't worry and let me bring this down to my bottom right
here.
All right.
If I go to my view dev tools and I take a look at my components.
In my job results view in my job listings, you'll notice we have our data with the 100 array 100 element
array of jobs, so we have not lost the original data.
It is still here, it is available.
We can create a new slice from it as we need to.
However, our completed property now has a subset of that the ten jobs that we are displaying right
here on our page.
So moving forward, as you can probably guess, the steps for creating page two is to simply tell our
computed property to calculate a different batch of ten jobs, the next sequence of ten from our original
jobs data rate.
And we never have to make another request to the back end to get the original data.
It is preserved, it is cached, is stored in our job listings component.
We're just going to change what is shown on the screen by using the computed property displayed jobs.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.